[Music]
can you get pregnant during the
pregnancy it's rare but possible if
you're already pregnant it probably
never crosses your mind that you might
get pregnant again
whatever bonds are in that oven are the
only ones you'll have to worry about
baking for the next 40 ish weeks right
well I don't want to scare you
but it turns out that you can still get
pregnant even if you already are before
we get into the details be sure to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
notifications so that you don't miss any
daily updates from the bright side of
life
pregnancy in humans happens when -
gimmicks containing genetic material the
father's sperm and the mother's egg
encounter each other after sex
this fertilization creates a zygote
which then divides into a group of cells
called an embryo the embryo grows into a
fetus after about 10 weeks which then
keeps developing until birth even normal
pregnancies can take a lot out of you so
this sort of double pregnancy is a
completely different beast the name for
this phenomenon is super few tation and
it's when different offspring develop in
different stages during the same
gestational period basically another egg
gets fertilized while the first is
already growing inside the womb this
phenomenon is much more common in
animals like rodents rabbits sheep minks
and badgers than in humans it's
extremely rare for super few tation to
occur in humans and there are only ten
documented cases a recent case is that
of Julia Grove and Burke in 2009 she
conceived a daughter and a son two and a
half weeks apart biologically the female
body is engineered to make sure this
doesn't happen hormonal changes during
pregnancy prevent ovulation the process
of releasing an egg from the ovaries
into the fallopian tubes to be
fertilized and thicken the uterine
lining to prevent another embryo from
attaching itself to it
no one's really sure why some embryos
manage to get past these defenses but
some obstetricians think it has to do
with the first embryos implantation into
the uterine wall if it gets delayed then
the spike in hormones that usually
prevents a double pregnancy does -
opening a window of opportunity for a
second embryo these two embryos are
considered fraternal twins since they
are created from two separate eggs being
fertilized by two separate sperm
however unlike traditional fraternal
twins each of the fetuses in the
superfood tation pregnancy has different
due dates to reflect their differing
dates of conception it's pretty hard to
give birth to one baby and keep the
other inside so they'll usually be
delivered together this doesn't present
many risks for the older fetus but the
younger one will more than likely be
born prematurely the preterm twin will
be smaller than its sibling
and have a higher risk of certain birth
defects and developmental delays
Julia Grove in Berks twins however were
an exception to this rule her daughter
Gillian was born on December 24th 2009
in her son Hudson on January 10th 2010
while superfight ation is rare in humans
the chances of a double pregnancy
occurring increase among those receiving
hormones for IVF boosting your fertility
with IVF stimulates your ovaries beyond
normal levels so they become more likely
to release more eggs to be fertilized
surrogates often undergo IVF treatments
to help with the process of conception
and are therefore more susceptible to
superfight ation in 2016 a California
woman Sarah gating for a chinese couple
carried not only their child but also
conceived her own that's right she gave
birth to twins who weren't even related
there obviously wasn't much legal
precedent for a case like this but
everything worked out in the end the
surrogate and her husband were able to
take their baby home and the Chinese
couple kept their baby this is pretty
fascinating isn't it hearing about it
has probably made you curious and you
might have a Google tab open right now
to find out more well you're not alone
according to a 2014 Google survey new
and
septon parents use this search engine
twice as much as other people when you
learned that people without kids use
Google 3.5 billion times a day it puts
things into perspective everyone wants
to know what to expect when they're
expecting and Google has all the answers
Google mostly tells them to expect to
spend a lot of money I know it's not
what any expectant parent wants to hear
but it's the truth
you could spend as much as eight
thousand dollars in your baby's first
year necessities like food diapers and
clothing don't come cheap then you have
to factor in a drop in income because of
paternity and maternity leave if you
haven't saved up enough for your little
ones arrival don't worry
Google can tell you where to buy when to
buy and how to alter and repurpose
clothes to get the most bang for your
buck this can come in especially handy
in the case of super food tation
pregnancy since the different
gestational ages of the twins can make
one much smaller than the other when the
older baby grows out of something it can
be handed down to the younger one before
you turn to Google to find out the
likelihood of getting pregnant while
you're already pregnant
let us save you a search it's extremely
rare unless you're on IVF treatments you
have no reason to worry and even then
the chances are low if you have any
concerns about your pregnancy be sure to
bring them to your obstetrician give
this video a thumbs up if you liked it
and share it with the other parents in
your Lamaze class then hit subscribe to
join us on the bright side of life
[Music]